README for "Generate Semantically Related Questions from PDF (Using Google Gemini)"
Overview
This Streamlit application allows users to upload a PDF containing questions and generate semantically related questions using the Google Gemini API. The application employs pdfplumber for extracting text from PDF files, regex for identifying questions, and Google's Generative AI model (Gemini Pro) to generate related questions based on context.

Features
PDF Text Extraction:

Uses pdfplumber to extract text from uploaded PDF files.
Question Detection:

Identifies questions from the text using regular expressions.
Semantic Question Generation:

Leverages Google's Gemini Pro API to generate semantically related questions.
Ensures the generated questions are unique, relevant, and not identical to the originals.
User-Friendly Interface:

Built using Streamlit for simplicity and interactivity.
Allows users to control the number of related questions generated.
Requirements
Prerequisites
Python 3.8+
Google Gemini API access
API key stored in an environment variable (GOOGLE_API_KEY)
Python Libraries
streamlit
pdfplumber
google.generativeai
langchain
python-dotenv
re
nltk
Installation
Install the required libraries with:

bash
Copy
Edit
pip install streamlit pdfplumber google-generativeai langchain python-dotenv nltk
Usage
1. Set Up Google Gemini API
Obtain your API key from Google Gemini.
Create a .env file in the same directory as the script and add your API key:
makefile
Copy
Edit
GOOGLE_API_KEY=your_google_gemini_api_key
2. Run the Application
Save the script in a file, e.g., app.py.
Launch the application:
bash
Copy
Edit
streamlit run app.py
3. Upload a PDF
Use the file uploader to upload a PDF containing questions.
4. Generate Related Questions
Specify the number of related questions you want to generate for each question (1–10).
Click the "Generate Related Questions" button to start the process.
Key Functions
1. extract_pdf_text
Extracts text from the uploaded PDF using pdfplumber.

2. extract_questions
Uses a regex pattern to detect and extract questions from the text.

3. generate_related_questions_with_gemini
Generates semantically related questions using the Google Gemini Pro API.

4. Streamlit Frontend
Provides a clean and interactive user interface:

Upload PDFs.
Input the number of questions to generate.
Display results dynamically.
Example Output
Input:
Uploaded a PDF containing:

csharp
Copy
Edit
1. What is photosynthesis?
2. Why do plants need sunlight?
Output:
Generated semantically related questions:

markdown
Copy
Edit
1. How does photosynthesis work in plants?
2. What are the key factors for photosynthesis?
3. Can plants survive without sunlight?
Customization
Adjust the temperature parameter in the ChatGoogleGenerativeAI initialization to control the creativity of responses.
Modify the regex pattern in extract_questions for different text formats.
Limitations
Requires an active internet connection and Google Gemini API access.
Regex-based question detection may miss non-standard question formats.
Limited to PDFs with extractable text (no support for scanned images).
Future Enhancements
Add support for handling scanned PDFs using OCR (e.g., pytesseract).
Enable multilingual support for question extraction and generation.
Provide advanced settings for fine-tuning the output, such as controlling the style or tone of generated questions.
License
This project is open-source and available under the MIT License.